The concept of surveillance has received tremendous attention especially since September 11, 2011 terrorist attack in the United States. Surveillance could be defined as watching over something, secretly monitoring the lives and movements of others with a view to either stopping or deterring a crime from taken place or for the sake of national security. New models of technologies have changed not only the practices of surveillance but also its particular nature and as a result have extremely diminished individuals' privacy rights. Meanwhile, the right of privacy has been a footstone of free, democratic society since its origination. As a matter of fact, it is difficult to imagine how one might achieve “Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness” without privacy.
There is a saying that “if you haven’t done anything wrong, you have nothing to fear.” This is a typical argument utilized by governments and other groups to justify their spying activities. As most people are law-abiding citizens, most ostensibly will not be targeted for surveillance and it will not impact their lives, while making their lives more comfortable and safer through the elimination of criminals. Thus, the government's utilization of closed-circuit television(CCTV)  cameras in public spaces, warrantless wiretapping, and library record checks have the potential to save lives from criminals and terrorists with only minimal invasion of its citizens' privacy.
It is controversial that allowing furtive surveillance of one form, even limited in scope and for a particular unforeseen circumstance, encourages government to expand such surveillance programs in the future. Furthermore, it is our perspective that the danger of a "slippery slope" scenario cannot be considered paranoid¬ as a prominent example, the collection of biometric has expanded tremendously in the past few years. Many schools in the United Kingdom collect fingerprints of children as young as six without parental permission (Doward 2006), while fingerprinting in American schools has been widespread since the mid-¬eighties (NYT National Desk 1983).
 When data is collected, whether such data remains utilized for its stated purpose after its collection has been called into question, even by government officials.  It poses a threat to privacy, which is of value to the individual and to society. This raises a number of questions about privacy, what it is and to what extent and why it is valuable.
Despite the disagreements, most would agree that on an individual level, privacy affords us the space to be ourselves and to define ourselves through giving us a degree of autonomy and protecting our dignity. In our interactions with others we may define the intimacy of our relationships with them through the amount of privacy we relinquish in that relationship. Generally, as we engage with society, we gain confidence and security from our privacy. Privacy is inseparable from individuals’ sense of security and belonging. Usually, we fear the stranger if they knew our vulnerabilities. Through keeping those vulnerabilities private, we maintain a level of personal safety.
Much of the discussion surrounding the ethics of surveillance concerns threats to individual or group privacy, and the balance of power between the individual and the state or the individual’s employers. There is a further potential harm of surveillance in the form of social sorting (Lyon 2014). The purpose of surveillance, it is argued, is to sort people into categories for ends which are either good or ill. The danger, however, is that social stereotypes are carried over into these categories and may even be treasured and institutionalized in them. Eventually, particular forms of surveillance might serve to have real impact on people’s life chances owing to such institutionalized prejudice. For instance, a recent study found that CCTV operators were disproportionately monitoring the young, the male and ethnic minorities “for no obvious reason” (Norris & Armstrong 1999). In other words, in the absence of suspicious behavior they were choosing to focus their attention on these categories of people. The result is that anyone falling into these categories is more likely to be caught if doing something wrong than someone else, thus perpetuating the stereotype. Furthermore, as these groups were being watched more frequently than others, they were more likely to be seen as doing something suspicious. This in turn could lead to lopsided response rates by security forces on the ground, contributing to a sense of alienation and rejection by society.
In addition, international law states that people have certain human rights, such as the right to free speech, the right to association and the right to protest (United Nations 1948). Nevertheless, suspicion as to a state’s motivations may lead to cynicism as to how the state will employ its surveillance technology in self-protection. Even if there is no evidence of wrong-doing the state may nonetheless choose to keep records on those who publicly admit to a certain belief, or who choose to associate with those whom the state believes pose a threat. These records may then be used against citizens at a later date by the state, or by a future iteration of the state if the individuals running the executive change. 
Here are some solutions about surveillance and privacy issues. First of all, the government can utilize the keystroke loggers as a spyware. The loggers are types of computer programs that can be used to track any records on a computer. The keystroke loggers may pose threat to individuals’ confidential information when they are using indiscriminately. Hence, the software program can be used to track production in workplaces in case the commercial or government’s confidentiality are leaked. However, they role in computers ensures that they are used as a spyware and guarantees that the users’ right to know they are under surveillance. They ensure privacy is protected if used as a tool in surveillance by the government. The federal law will require amendments in protecting the keystroke loggers’ installation.
            Meanwhile, the development of location technologies is a solution to surveillance and privacy, too. There are electronic tracking devices which are used but advanced ones have been introduced in cellphones and in cars navigation systems. The technologies will ensure that individuals are safe, secure and convenient. The government has a responsibility to monitor one’s movement and ensure maximum security. There will be a need for legal standards which will aim at protecting the privacy rights in the surveillance of an individual.
The following is a criterion that can be used to evaluate the development of location technologies in surveillance. The government agencies must be authorized to participate in tracking the movements of individual. They must be aware that their privacy will not be exposed to other people by the agents. Ordinarily, the data of the movements ought to be saved in the background databases. When they are needed, the authorized department can use them without leakage. The fundamental human right is an issue to be well considered. The tracking of movements in bad places does not mean the agents will have a right to expose this to the public. The development of the location technologies has been subsidized in cellphones and in the car systems and their costs are affordable. 
In a nutshell, the paper focused on the different forms of surveillance that exists for a long time, have contributed to the further violation of our privacy. Advances in technology have tremendously increased the power of the state to carry out surveillance upon its citizens without any form of restraint. This situation has inevitably exposed members of the society to constant surveillance by security agents. At the same time, surveillance makes contribution to citizens’ safety and security. Electronic tracking devices can ensure people’s safety and convenience. Furthermore, with the equitable standards and regulations, it can also protect the individuals’ privacy. Hence, it is a legitimate and pragmatic choice to use the electronic tracking devices to balance the surveillance and privacy.
